Type relations (#571)
microsoft/cadl: docs/type-relations.md

# Cadl Types

## Type hierachy

```mermaid
graph RL
    object --> unknown
    record["Record<T>"] --> object
    customModel["Custom model with properties"] --> record["Record<T>"]
    array["Array<T>"] --> unknown
    tuple["Tuple"] --> array
    numeric --> unknown

>     subgraph numerics[For numeric types, a smaller type can be assigned to a larger one]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    subgraph numerics[For numeric types, a narrower type can be assigned to a wider one]
```
Nit here: but `int32` might be considered "smaller" than "uint64"

        uint32 --> integer
        uint64 --> integer
      float --> numeric
        float32 --> float
        float64 -->  float
    end
    string --> unknown
    boolean --> unknown
    null --> unknown
    bytes --> unknown
    plainDate --> unknown
    plainTime --> unknown
    zoneDateTime --> unknown
    duration --> unknown
```

## Model with properties

When checking if type `S` can be assigned to type `T`, if `T` is a model with properties, it will look for all those properties to be present inside of `S` and their type be assignable to the type of the property is T.

For example

```cadl
model T {
  foo: string;
  bar: int32;
}

// Valid

model S { // When properties types are the exact same
  foo: string;
  bar: int32;
}
model S { // When the properties types are literal assignable to the target type
  foo: "abc";
  bar: 123;
}
model S {
  foo: string;
  bar: int8; // int8 is assignable to int16
}
model S {
  foo: string;
  bar: int32;
  otherProp: boolean; // Additional properties are valid.
}

// Invalid
model S { // Missing property bar
  foo: string;
}
model S {
  foo: string;
  bar: int64; // int64 is NOT assignable to int32
}

```

## Record<T>

> A record is a model indexed with a string with value of T. This means that is represent a model where all properties(string key) are assignable to the type T. You can assign an model expression where all the properties are of type T or another model that `is` also a `Record<T>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A record is a model indexed with a string with value of T. This means that it represents a model where all properties(string key) are assignable to the type T. You can assign a model expression where all the properties are of type T or another model that `is` also a `Record<T>`
```

```cadl
// Represent an object where all the values are int32.
alias T = Record<int32>;

// Valid
alias S = {
  foo: 123;
  bar: 345;
};
alias S = {
  foo: int8;
  bar: int32;
};
model S is Record<int32> {}
model S is Record<int32> {
  foo: 123;
}

// Invalid
alias S = {
  foo: "abc";
  bar: 456;
};
alias S = {
  foo: int64;
  bar: int32;
};
model S {
  foo: 123;
  bar: 456;
}

```

#### Why is the last case not assignable to `Record<int32>`?

In this scenario

```cadl
alias T = Record<int32>;
model S {
  foo: 123;
  bar: 456;
}

```

> The reason is `model S` here is not assignable but the model expression `{ foo: 123; bar: 456; }` does, is that model S could be extended with additional properties that could then not be compatible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reason is `model S` here is not assignable, but the model expression `{ foo: 123; bar: 456; }` is, is that model S could be extended with additional properties that could then not be compatible.
```
